   67th Annual Conference

“The Future of Kinesiology: Embracing
  Challenge Through Collaboration”




              October 5-7, 2022
                     Oakland Center
                    Oakland, CA 94607


“Where the conferee is the program, and mentoring and
           networking are the foundation”

                                                        1
                          Welcome from the President-Elect




        Welcome to the 67th Annual Western Society of Kinesiology and Wellness (WSKW)
Conference in Oakland, CA. As President-Elect of WSKW, I join President Dr. Jennifer Sherwood
and Past-President Dr. Lee Ann Wiggin in extending a warm welcome to the 2022 conference.
        We hope you enjoy the opportunity to learn from professionals in the field, network
with colleagues from around the world, and mentor the next generation of health, wellness,
and kinesiology professionals. A variety of sessions are available for you to enjoy including
academic oral presentations covering a wide variety of topics, academic poster sessions
intended to share results of new research, and undergraduate and graduate research
presentations through the annual R. D. Peavy Paper student competition. In addition, WSKW is
excited that Dr. Eric Martin will deliver the Keynote Presentation and that Dr. W. Matthew
Silvers will deliver the E.C. Davis Lecture. Renowned professionals in our field, Dr. Martin and
Dr. Silvers are highly respected for their contributions to the fields of health, wellness, physical
education, and sport.
        Enjoy the opportunity to immerse yourself in the sharing of information relative to our
profession. We hope you leave energized and excited to return to your roles as researchers,
teachers, or students.

Respectfully,


Heather Van Mullem, PhD
2022 WSKW President-Elect




                                                                                                       2
                        2022 Featured Speakers




                                        Keynote Speaker
                          Eric Martin, PhD, Boise State University
Dr. Eric Martin is the Director of the Center for Physical Activity and Sport (CPAS) and an Associate
Professor in the Kinesiology Department at Boise State University. His research focuses on youth sports,
specifically motivation, burnout and positive youth development, athlete activism, and building
resilience in both sporting and non-sporting college students. Additionally, he is a Certified Mental
Performance Consultant (CMPC®) and consults in sport and other performance contexts with individuals
and teams at the middle school, high school, collegiate, and professional levels including several teams
at Boise State University.




                                      E.C. Davis Lecturer
                     W. Matthew Silvers, PhD, Whitworth University

W. Matthew Silvers is a Professor in the Health Sciences department and Administrator for the
Institutional Review Board at Whitworth University. Additionally, he is the Event Director of the IronMay
Challenge. He received his B.S. from Washington State University and his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from
the University of Idaho. While on the Palouse, Matt volunteered with the Cougar Athletics and Vandal
Athletics Strength and Conditioning programs, served as the Head Cross Country Coach for Pullman High
School, taught strength and conditioning courses for both universities, and served as the Race Director
for several running and triathlon events. His personal and professional interests include building stuff,
spending time outdoors, running, triathlons, coaching, and researching unique cross training strategies
for runners, such as aquatic treadmill running, kettlebell lifting, cycle sprint training, and circuit
resistance training.



                                                                                                        3
              Western Society for Kinesiology & Wellness


                                   Leadership Team 2022

President: Jennifer Sherwood (California State University, East Bay)
President-Elect: Heather Van Mullem (Lewis-Clark State College)
Past President: Lee Ann Wiggin (Lewis-Clark State College)
Executive Director: Cathy Inouye (California State University, East Bay)
Treasurer: Seung Ho Chang (San Jose State University)
Secretary: Gioella Chaparro (California State University, Dominguez Hills)
Faculty-at-Large: Karen Hostetter (Northern Arizona University)
Web Administrator: Ovande Furtado (California State University, Northridge)
Archivist: Vacant
Editor, Journal of Kinesiology & Wellness (JKW): Jeffrey Bernard (California State University,
Stanislaus)
R. D. Peavy Paper Coordinator: Lee Ann Wiggin (Lewis-Clark State College)
G. Arthur Broten “Young Scholars” Award Coordinator: Andrea Ednie (University of Wisconsin-
Whitewater)




                                                                                                 4
